Open API spec generation (#2665)
strapi/documentation: docusaurus/docs/cms/api/openapi.md

---
title: OpenAPI Specification Generation
description: Learn how to generate OpenAPI specifications for your Strapi applications using the @strapi/openapi package
displayed_sidebar: cmsSidebar
pagination_prev: cms/api/document
pagination_next: cms/api/rest
tags:
  - openapi
  - api
  - documentation
  - specification
---

# OpenAPI Specification Generation

> Strapi provides a command-line tool to generate OpenAPI specifications for your applications. This tool automatically creates comprehensive API documentation that describes all available endpoints, parameters, and response formats in your Strapi application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Strapi provides a command-line tool to generate OpenAPI specifications for your applications. This tool automatically creates comprehensive API documentation that describes all available endpoints, parameters, and response formats in your Strapi application's content API.
```

          "200": {
            "description": "Successful response",
            "content": {
              "application/json": {
                "schema": {
                  "type": "object",
                  "properties": {
                    "data": {
                      "type": "array",
                      "items": { "$ref": "#/components/schemas/Article" }
                    }
                  }
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "components": {
    "schemas": {
      "Article": {
        "type": "object",
        "properties": {
          "id": { "type": "integer" },
          "title": { "type": "string" },
          "content": { "type": "string" }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Generated specification content

The generated OpenAPI specification includes all available API endpoints in your Strapi application:

### API Endpoints

The specification includes:

- **CRUD operations** for all content types
- **Custom API routes** defined in your application
- **Authentication endpoints** for user management
- **File upload endpoints** for media handling
- **Plugin endpoints** from installed plugins

> - **Admin panel endpoints** for administrative functions

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

It only covers the content API for now
